CSS random() reference doc (#43161)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/reference/values/random/index.md

---
title: random()
slug: Web/CSS/Reference/Values/random
page-type: css-function
status:
  - experimental
browser-compat: css.types.random
sidebar: cssref
---

The **`random()`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) [function](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Values/Functions) generates a random numeric value within a specified range. This allows for dynamic, randomized styling using CSS.

{{InteractiveExample("CSS Demo: random()")}}

```html interactive-example
<div class="box"></div>
```

```css interactive-example
.box {
  rotate: random(element-shared, 0deg, 360deg);
  width: random(element-shared, 100px, 500px);
  background: hsl(random(element-shared, 0, 360), 50%, 50%);
  height: random(element-shared, 100px, 500px);

> }

Author: Addressed in [f9ee6bd](https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/43161/commits/f9ee6bd26b99dc394d4e61c82b22f414d74a91df) for now without extra newlines.

```

## Syntax

```css
/* Basic usage */
random(0, 100)

/* With range and units */
random(10px, 500px)
random(0deg, 360deg)

/* With step interval */
random(0, 100, 10)

/* Random base value shared across elements */
random(element-shared, 0, 360)

/* Combined options */
random(element-shared, 0deg, 360deg, 45deg)

/* Using a custom key to share the random value */

> random(--my-key, 0, 100)

Author: Yes, the spec removed the "by" flag.

```

### Parameters

- `<random-value-sharing>` (optional)
  - : Controls which random functions in the document will share a random base value and which will get distinct values.
    This can be either:
    - `auto`
      - : Each use of `random()` in an element's style gets its own unique random base value.
    - {{cssxref("dashed-ident")}}
      - : A custom key for sharing (e.g., `--my-random-key`) the same random base value across styles.
    - `element-shared`
      - : All elements that use `random()` with this parameter will share the same random base value.
    - `fixed <number>`
      - : Specifies a base value between 0 and 1 for the random value to be generated from.

- `<calc-sum>` (minimum)
  - : The minimum value of the random range. Can be a number, dimension, percentage, or calculation. Must use the same type as the maximum value and optional step interval value, if provided.

- `<calc-sum>` (maximum)

>   - : The maximum value of the random range. Can be a number, dimension, percentage, or calculation. Must use the same type as the minimum value and optional step interval value, if provided.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `<calc-sum>, <calc-sum>`
  - : The comma-separated minimum and maximum valid return values as  `<number>`, `<dimension>`,  or `<percentage>`. Both parameter values must be resolvable  the same [data type](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Values/Data_types).
```

- `<calc-sum>` (optional)
  - : Specifies the step interval. Only values that are multiples of this step will be generated. Must use the same type as the minimum and maximum values.

### Return value
  

> A random value from the minimum to the maximum in the same type provided for the parameters.

Reviewer: sounds good to me

## Description
  
The `random(<calc-sum>, <calc-sum>)` function call specifies a minimum value and a maximum value and a random result is generated within the range specified. The values specified must be of the same value type, [number](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Values/number), [dimension](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Values/dimension), or {{cssxref("percentage")}}, for the function to be valid. While the units in the two parameters don't need to be the same, they do need to be of the same dimension type, such as {{cssxref("length")}}, {{cssxref("angle")}}, {{cssxref("time")}}, or {{cssxref("frequency")}} to be valid.

> ### Random Base Value

Author: Fixed in [b082b10](https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/43161/commits/b082b10dc4114bf9e8f8cc64233fdfe791acc46a)

> The random base value is an underlying deterministic number that generates the final random result similar to a seed given to a randomization algorithm. When the same random base value is used for different `random()` functions, the results will vary in a coordinated way. Different random base values will create independently random results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Random base value

The `radnom()` function includes an optional `<random-value-sharing>` value as its first argument. This random base value resolves to an underlying deterministic number that generates the final random result similar to a [seed given to a randomization algorithm](/en-US/docs/Glossary/RNG). When the same random base, or _seed_, value is used within multiple `random()` functions, the results will vary in a coordinated way. If, on the other hand, each `random()` function uses a different random base values, each `random()` result is generated independently.
```
- i think this may be easier for people to understand. In the CSS section, i would assume that not everyone knows that random number generators don't generate truly random numbers
- always leave an empty line before and after every heading
- headings are sentence cased

Author: I kept the simplified version I came up with but added your suggested link to the glossary entry for RNG: [ea195a6](https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/43161/commits/ea195a632f2aef68d952aaa4ecd8b34ebd2bff78)

### Random Value Sharing

> You can optionally provide a `<random-value-sharing>` value as the first parameter which controls how the random base value is shared. Sharing can be useful for reusing the same randomly generated value, a necessity for some design effects. The optional first parameter can use `auto`, an `element-shared` keyword, a custom {{cssxref("dashed-ident")}} or `fixed <number>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Random value sharing

The optional first`<random-value-sharing>` parameter controls how the random base value is shared. Sharing enables reusing a same, randomly generated, value, a necessity for some design effects. The value can be set tocan use `auto`, an `element-shared` keyword, a custom {{cssxref("dashed-ident")}} , or `fixed <number>`.
```

Use the `element-shared` keyword as the first parameter to share the random base value across all elements that use `random()` with the keyword. When you specify a `<dashed-ident>` (e.g. `--custom-name`), each element gets its own random base value. Within that element, all properties that reference the same ident will share that base value. Combining a `<dashed-ident>` with `element-shared` (e.g. `random(--custom-name element-shared, 0, 100)`) shares the random base value across elements and properties that use the same `<random-value-sharing>` parameter.

#### Automatic behavior

> When you omit the first parameter, `auto` is used which causes CSS to auto-generate an ident from the property name and a position. This behavior can cause some unexpected random base value sharing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Automatic behavior

When you omit the first parameter, `auto` is used which causes CSS to auto-generate an ident from the property name and a position. This behavior can cause some unexpected random base value sharing.
```

```css
--random-size: random(1px, 100px);
```

In the above example, the `--random-size` custom property does not "store" the randomly generated result. When `var(--random-size)` is parsed it is effectively replaced with `random(1px, 100px)`, meaning each use creates a new `random()` call with its own base value depending on the context in which its used. 

If the intent is to use a shared random value, use `element-shared`, or a {{cssxref("dashed-ident")}}, or both in `random()` calls assigned to a custom property. Alternatively, you can use a registered custom property with {{cssxref("@property")}}. Registered custom properties will compute the random value and store it.

## Accessibility

Because `random()` can generate an unknown value within a range, you don’t have full control over what you get and that can lead to inaccessible results. For example, if you use `random()` to generate color for text, you could end up with a value that has low contrast. So it’s important to be mindful of the context in which `random()` is being used so that your results are still accessible.

## Formal syntax

{{CSSSyntax}}

## Examples

### Generate random colors for circular badge

#### HTML

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

We include four badges, two with the `unique` class.
```

  }
}
```

## Syntax

```css
/* Basic usage */
random(0, 100)
random(10px, 500px)
random(0deg, 360deg)

/* With step interval */
random(0, 100, by 10)
random(0rad, 1turn, 30deg)

/* With base value */
random(auto, 0, 360)
random(element-shared, 0s, 5s)
random(--unique-base, 400px, 100px)
random(fixed 0.5,  1em, 40vw)

/* With base and step values */
random(element-shared, 0deg, 360deg, 45deg)
random(--my-base, 1em, 3rem, 2px)
```

### Parameters

- `<random-value-sharing>` {{optional_inline}}
  - : Controls which random functions in the document will share a random base value and which will get distinct values.
    This can be either:
    - `auto`
      - : Each use of `random()` in an element's style gets its own unique random base value.
    - {{cssxref("dashed-ident")}}
      - : A custom key for sharing (e.g., `--my-random-key`) the same random base value across properties of an element.
    - `element-shared`
      - : A random base value is shared across all elements for a property using `random()` with this key term, while other properties on the same element using `random()` get a unique random base value.
    - `fixed <number>`

>       - : Specifies a base value between 0 and 1 for the random value to be generated from.

Author: Addressed in [7139f0b](https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/43161/commits/7139f0b716694e88036b518831f01b41224bfe08).

All the `random()` functions with the `element-shared` keyword share the random base value for the other elements but only for the same property. For example, when the following is declared, A, B, and C will be identically sized rectangles with all the same random width and all the same random height:

```css
A, B, C {
  width: random(element-shared, 10px, 200px);
  height: random(element-shared, 10px, 200px);
}
```
 
When you specify a `<dashed-ident>` (e.g. `--custom-name`), each element in an element’s styles with the same name shares the same random base value, and ones with different `<dashed-ident>` values will be assigned distinct random base values. When the following is declared, A, B, and C will all be squares, because within each element, all properties that reference the same ident will share the same base value. Therefore, the width of each will be the same as it's height, but A, B, and C will have distinct sizes.

```css
A, B, C {
  width: random(--custom-name, 10px, 200px);
  height: random(--custom-name, 10px, 200px);
}

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```
 
Combining a `<dashed-ident>` with `element-shared` (e.g. `random(--custom-name element-shared, 0, 100)`) shares the random base value across elements and properties that use the same `<random-value-sharing>` parameter. Given the following, A, B, and C will all be squares of the same size:

```css
A, B, C {
  width: random(--custom-name element-shared,, 10px, 200px);
  height: random(--custom-name element-shared, 10px, 200px);
}
```

#### Automatic behavior

When the first parameter is omitted, `auto` is used which causes CSS to auto-generate an ident from the property name and a position. This behavior can cause some unexpected random base value sharing.

```css
.foo {
  margin: random(1px, 100px) random(1px, 100px);
}
.bar {
  width: random(100px, 200px);
}
.bar:hover {
  width: random(100px, 200px);
}
```

> When CSS auto-generates names, rules targeting the same element and property, such as `.bar` and `.bar:hover` in this example, both `random()` functions end up with the same random base value, so the value won't visibly change between states. To get an independent value for each rule, provide a unique {{cssxref("dashed-ident")}}.

Author: Addressed in [7139f0b](https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/43161/commits/7139f0b716694e88036b518831f01b41224bfe08).

{{InteractiveExample("CSS Demo: random()")}}

```html interactive-example
<div class="box"></div>
```

```css interactive-example
.box {
  rotate: random(element-shared, 0deg, 360deg);
  width: random(element-shared, 50px, 300px);
  background-color: hsl(random(element-shared, 0, 360) 50% 50%);
  height: random(element-shared, 50px, 300px);
}

@supports not (order: random(1, 2)) {
  body::before {
    content: "Your browser doesn't support the random() function.";
  }
}
```

## Syntax

```css
/* Basic usage */
random(0, 100)
random(10px, 500px)
random(0deg, 360deg)

/* With step interval */
random(0, 100, by 10)
random(0rad, 1turn, 30deg)

/* With base value */
random(auto, 0, 360)
random(element-shared, 0s, 5s)
random(--unique-base, 400px, 100px)

> random(fixed 0.5,  1em, 40vw)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
random(fixed 0.5,  1em, 40vw)
random(--unique-base element-shared, 100dpi, 300dpi)
```
adding a double base value and another data type

    - `element-shared`
      - : A random base value is shared across all elements for a property using `random()` with this key term, while other properties on the same element using `random()` get a unique random base value.
    - `fixed <number>`
      - : Specifies a base value between 0 and 1 for the random value to be generated from.

- `<calc-sum>, <calc-sum>`
  - : Two required, comma-separated, `<number>`, `<dimension>`,  or `<percentage>` values, or calculations resolving to one of these types, defining the minimum and maximum values, respectively. Both values must be resolvable the same [data type](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Values/Data_types).

- `<calc-sum>` {{optional_inline}}
  - : The optional third `<calc-sum>`, preceded by a comma, specifies the step interval. If present, and of the same data type as the two comma-separated minimum and maximum `<calc-sum>` values, it defines the return value to be minimum value or at increments of the step value, up to the maximum value. 

### Return value
  
A random value from the minimum to the maximum in the same type provided for the parameters.

## Description
  

> The `random(<random-value-sharing>, <calc-sum>, <calc-sum>, <calc-sum>)` function specifies a minimum value and a maximum value and a random result is generated within the range specified. An [optional `<random-value-sharing>`](#random-value-sharing) parameter enables setting the same or differing random base values between differing properties and different elements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `random(<random-value-sharing>, <calc-sum>, <calc-sum>, <calc-sum>)` function returns a random values within a range specified by the given minimum and maximum values. An [optional `<random-value-sharing>`](#random-value-sharing) parameter enables setting the same or differing random base values between differing properties and different elements. The return value can be further restricted by setting an [optional step parameter](#step).
```
we likely should explain the step too.

  background: hsl(random(0, 360) 50% 50%);
}

@supports not (order: random(1, 2)) {
  :root::after {
    content: "Your browser doesn't support the random() function.";
  }
}
```

#### Result

{{EmbedLiveSample('Generate random colors for circular badge', '100%', '300px')}}

### Creating a starry backdrop

#### HTML

```html
<html>
  <body>
    <div class="particle"></div>
    <div class="particle"></div>
    <div class="particle"></div>
    <div class="particle"></div>
    <div class="particle"></div>
  </body>
</html>
```

#### CSS

```css
body {
  background: black;
}

.particle {
  border-radius: 50%;
  background: white;
  position: fixed;
  width: random(--particle-size, 0.25em, 1em);
  height: random(--particle-size, 0.25em, 1em);
  top: random(0%, 100%);
  left: random(0%, 100%);
  animation: move 1s alternate-reverse infinite;
}
```

```css hidden
@supports not (order: random(1, 2)) {
  body::before {
    color: white;
    content: "Your browser doesn't support the random() function.";
  }
}
```

#### Result

{{EmbedLiveSample('Creating a starry backdrop', '100%', '300px')}}

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

- {{cssxref("calc()")}}
- {{domxref("Math.random()")}}
```

{{InteractiveExample("CSS Demo: random()")}}

```html interactive-example
<div class="box"></div>
```

```css interactive-example
.box {
  rotate: random(element-shared, 0deg, 360deg);
  width: random(element-shared, 50px, 300px);
  background-color: hsl(random(element-shared, 0, 360) 50% 50%);
  height: random(element-shared, 50px, 300px);
}

@supports not (order: random(1, 2)) {
  body::before {
    content: "Your browser doesn't support the random() function.";
  }
}
```

## Syntax

```css
/* Basic usage */
random(0, 100)
random(10px, 500px)
random(0deg, 360deg)

/* With step interval */
random(0, 100, 10)
random(0rad, 1turn, 30deg)

/* With base value */
random(auto, 0, 360)
random(element-shared, 0s, 5s)
random(--unique-base, 400px, 100px)
random(fixed 0.5, 1em, 40vw)
random(--unique-base element-shared, 100dpi, 300dpi)

/* With base and step values */
random(element-shared, 0deg, 360deg, 45deg)
random(--my-base, 1em, 3rem, 2px)
```

### Parameters

- `<random-value-sharing>` {{optional_inline}}

>   - : Controls which random functions in the document will share a random base value and which will get distinct values.

Author: Addressed in [b3b1f5f](https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/43161/commits/b3b1f5f9bd65d03227760719cb76dae92219971e).

<div class="badge desaturated"></div>
<div class="badge unique"></div>
<div class="badge unique"></div>
```

#### CSS

We render the five badges as circles. We use the `random()` function within an {{cssxref("hsl()")}} color function to define the {{cssxref("angle")}} of the {{cssxref("hue")}}. We set `element-shared` to share the random base value between the default `badge` and the `desaturated` one, so it is a less saturated version of the same {{cssxref("hue")}}. We then override the `unique` badges to have a truly random `hue` by letting the base value sharing parameter default to `auto`.

```css
.badge {
  display: inline-block;
  width: 5em;
  aspect-ratio: 1/1;
  border-radius: 50%;
  background: hsl(random(element-shared, 0, 360) 50% 50%);
}
.badge.desaturated {
  background: hsl(random(element-shared, 0, 360) 10% 50%);
}
.badge.unique {
  background: hsl(random(0, 360) 50% 50%);
}

@supports not (order: random(1, 2)) {
  :root::after {
    content: "Your browser doesn't support the random() function.";
  }
}
```

#### Result

{{EmbedLiveSample('Generate random colors for circular badge', '100%', '300px')}}

### Creating a starry backdrop

#### HTML

> 

Author: Addressed in [b3b1f5f](https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/43161/commits/b3b1f5f9bd65d03227760719cb76dae92219971e).

```html
<html>
  <body>
    <div class="particle"></div>
    <div class="particle"></div>
    <div class="particle"></div>
    <div class="particle"></div>
    <div class="particle"></div>
  </body>
</html>
```

#### CSS

> 

Author: Addressed in [b3b1f5f](https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/43161/commits/b3b1f5f9bd65d03227760719cb76dae92219971e).

#### CSS

> Every particle has the same styles. We use the `random()` function for the {{cssxref("height")}},  {{cssxref("width")}}, {{cssxref("top")}}, and {{cssxref("left")}} values to randomly size and position each particle. We use a `<dashed-ident>` as the base value for the `height` and `width`, meaning the size of the particles are independent of each other, within a specified range, but each particle's `height` will be the same as it's `width`. We allow the base value to resolve to `auto` for the `top` and `left` properties, so the base value for each property and element is independent of each other.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every particle has the same styles. We use the `random()` function for the {{cssxref("height")}}, {{cssxref("width")}}, {{cssxref("top")}}, and {{cssxref("left")}} values to randomly size and position each particle. We use a `<dashed-ident>` as the base value for the `height` and `width`, meaning the size of the particles are independent of each other, within a specified range, but each particle's `height` will be the same as it's `width`. We allow the base value to resolve to `auto` for the `top` and `left` properties, so the base value for each property and element is independent of each other.
```
